-- Ibis-Deploy README --

Ibis-Deploy is a library for running Ibis applications on (remote) resources
such as clusters, grids, clouds, etc. It is specifically designed to be as easy
to use as possible. It can be used directly by "management" applications to
deploy software , but it also comes with a GUI as well as a command line
interface for end users.

Library Features:

- Simple Java Properties based configuration
- Automatic deployment of the Ibis server required for most IPL based
  applications
- Automatic deployment of SmartSockets infrastructure on used resources

CLI Features:

- Automatic running of distributed experiments

GUI Features:

- Point-and-click interface for running possibly world-wide experiments
- Visualization of available resources on a world map
- Visualization of (smartsockets) network information

-- Ibis-Deploy Concepts --

Cluster: A collection of nodes, with a front-end E.g. the VU DAS-3 Cluster, the
Desktop-grid at the VU, and the Amazon EC2 cloud.

Grid: A collection of clusters. Grids act as a container format for cluster,
and can be specified in a grid file. (see the examples directory)

Application: A Java application (which normally uses the IPL).

ApplicationSet: Collection of Applications. the ApplicationSet is a container
format for applications, and can be specified in an "applications" file. (see
the examples directory)

Job: An application running on a number of nodes of a certain cluster. Each job
has a status (SUBMITTED, RUNNING, DONE, ERROR, etc) which can be used to track
the status of a job.

JobDescription: Specification of a job. Note the difference with Job, which
represents a _running_ job.

Experiment: A number of jobs running concurrently. Can be represented by an
".experiment" file.

Workspace: A number of experiments, running a certain ApplicationSet on a
certain Grid. Container of a list of Experiments, a Grid and an ApplicationSet.
Represented by a directory, containing files for each. Note that the
Ibis-Deploy GUI only supports a single experiment per workspace.

-- Compiling --

Ibis-Deploy comes with an ant build file (build.xml). Compile with "ant" in the
root directory of Ibis-Deploy.

-- Running Ibis-Deploy --

Running Ibis-Deploy can be done with either the "ibis-deploy-gui" or the
"ibis-deploy-cli" script in the bin directory. Both assume the
current working directory is the root of Ibis-Deploy:

localhost:ibis-deploy-root$ bin/ibis-deploy-gui
localhost:ibis-deploy-root$ bin/ibis-deploy-cli

Alternatively, the DEPLOY_HOME environment variable can be used to override the location of Ibis-Deploy.

Please run either application with the "--help" option for command line options.
